Transcript of Michael S. Gentry's "Anchorhead", by David A. Wheeler

{I wish I'd made a transcript while trying to solve Anchorhead, because
there's a lot of interesting text in the game... but I didn't.
So instead I started over, started a transcript, and used the
walkthrough by Aeron Pax along with a lot of extra "examinations" and
"look"s to get a sense of the place.  This way, you can at least enjoy
some of the text of Anchorhead.  Note: In a few places the commands
seem "miraculous" because they don't really search around to find out
what to do, as you would in a real game.  If you want to experience
the game, you should just go play it.}




  A N C H O R H E A D

 [Press 'R' to restore; any other key to begin]

[ The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind
  is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind
  of fear is fear of the unknown.
  
  -- H.P. Lovecraft]


November, 1997.


You take a deep breath of salty air as the first raindrops begin to spatter
the pavement, and the swollen, slate-colored clouds that blanket the sky
mutter ominous portents amongst themselves over the little coastal town of
Anchorhead.

Squinting up into the glowering storm, you wonder how everything managed to
happen so fast. The strange phone call over a month ago, from a lawyer
claiming to represent the estate of some distant branch of Michael's family,
was bewildering enough in itself... but then the sudden whirlwind of
planning and decisions, legal details and travel arrangements, the packing
up and shipping away of your entire home, your entire life...

Now suddenly here you are, after driving for the past two days straight,
over a thousand miles away from the familiar warmth of Texas, getting
ready to move into the ancestral mansion of a clan of relatives so far
removed that not even Michael has ever heard of them. And you've only
been married since June and none of this was any of your idea in the first
place, and already it's starting to rain.

These days, you often find yourself feeling confused and uprooted.

You shake yourself and force the melancholy thoughts from your head,
trying to focus on the errand at hand. You're to meet with the real estate
agent and pick up the keys to your new house while Michael runs across town
to take care of some paperwork at the university. He'll be back to pick you up
in a few minutes, and then the two of you can begin the long, precarious
process of settling in.

A sullen belch emanates from the clouds, and the rain starts coming down
harder -- fat, cold drops smacking loudly against the cobblestones.
Shouldn't it be snowing in New England at this time of year? With a sigh,
you open your umbrella.

Welcome to Anchorhead...

[                 * THE FIRST DAY *
  
  I was far from home, and the spell of the eastern
  sea was upon me.
  
  -- H.P. Lovecraft]


ANCHORHEAD

An interactive gothic by Michael S. Gentry

(Type HELP or ABOUT for some useful information.)

Release 5 / Serial number 990206 / Inform v6.15 Library 6/7

Outside the Real Estate Office
A grim little cul-de-sac, tucked away in a corner of the claustrophobic tangle
of narrow, twisting avenues that largely constitute the older portion of
Anchorhead. Like most of the streets in this city, it is ancient, shadowy, and
leads essentially nowhere. The lane ends here at the real estate agent's office,
which lies to the east, and winds its way back toward the center of town to the
west. A narrow, garbage-choked alley opens to the southeast.

>transcript
Start of a transcript of
ANCHORHEAD
An interactive gothic by Michael S. Gentry


(Type HELP or ABOUT for some useful information.)

 Release 5 / Serial number 990206 / Inform v6.15 Library 6/7
 Standard interpreter 1.1 (4F) / Library serial number 970918

>look

Outside the Real Estate Office
A grim little cul-de-sac, tucked away in a corner of the claustrophobic tangle
of narrow, twisting avenues that largely constitute the older portion of
Anchorhead. Like most of the streets in this city, it is ancient, shadowy, and
leads essentially nowhere. The lane ends here at the real estate agent's office,
which lies to the east, and winds its way back toward the center of town to the
west. A narrow, garbage-choked alley opens to the southeast.

>e
(opening the real estate office door first)
It seems to be locked.

>x door
The door has a glass front with the name of the real estate company -- Benson &
Brackhurst -- stenciled across it. The blinds are drawn, the lights are off
inside, and no one appears to be home. Odd, since the agent knew you were coming
today.

In the distance, you can hear the lonesome keening of a train whistle drifting
on the wind.

>x glass
The door has a glass front with the name of the real estate company -- Benson &
Brackhurst -- stenciled across it. The blinds are drawn, the lights are off
inside, and no one appears to be home. Odd, since the agent knew you were coming
today.

>unlock door
(with the sky)
(first taking the sky)
How optimistic of you.

>w

Narrow Street
As the lane winds along from east to west, it narrows until the steep, jagged
rooftops on either side of the street practically touch each other. To the
south, a side street leads across Whateley Bridge toward the center of town, and
a twisting lane leads up a hill to the northwest. A short flight of steps to the
north leads down to the local watering hole.

>n
You close your umbrella, as is your habit after coming indoors.

Local Pub
A dank, drafty old drinking hole lit by flickering, oil-burning lanterns. Smoke
collects in greasy pools among the rafters, and shadows crowd thick around. The
bar runs the length of the room to your right, while to the south a low doorway
opens onto the street.

Mill workers and fishermen occupy a few of the tables, drinking beer or puffing
grimly at long-stemmed pipes. Each is wrapped in his solitude, soaking up the
general miasma of dreary fatalism.

The lantern sitting on the table nearest you sputters fitfully, throwing
distorted shadows across the wall.

>get lantern
No one here looks as though they'd mind if you borrowed one of these lamps.
Casually, you purloin the nearest one.

>x lantern
It's an old-fashioned hurricane lamp, with a tall glass chimney to protect it
from the wind. The cotton wick burns fitfully in its reservoir of cheap oil.

>x self
You look good, considering. A bit rattled by recent events, perhaps, but well-
poised and collected, all the same.

>inventory
You are wearing your wedding ring, your trenchcoat and your clothes; in
addition, you have in your hands a lantern (providing light) and your umbrella.

The pockets of your trenchcoat are empty.

>put lantern in coat
It wouldn't be very wise to put the lantern in your pocket while it's still
burning.

>turn off lantern
That's not something you can switch.

>unlight lantern
That's not a verb I recognise.

>x table
It's just an ordinary-looking table.

>x bar
A dark and dour expanse of wood, pitted and scarred and stained with the rings
from over a hundred years' worth of slopping beer mugs.

>x workers
The patrons of this place are taciturn and grim. No one speaks. No one looks
anyone in the eye. No one, in fact, even looks up from his beer. A heavy aura of
resignation -- and, it almost seems, dread -- hangs palpably over the whole
crowd.

>s
As you make your way to the door, your foot strikes something under one of the
tables.

>look under table
Some forgetful soul has left a flask underneath one of the tables, pushed into a
shadowy corner.

>get flask
You pick up the flask. The label is faded and mostly peeled away, but what
little you can make out seems to indicate that this is not a particularly
distinguished brand of spirits. The words "bootleg" and "rotgut" come to mind,
probably because they are the only words legible on what's left of the label.

>put flask in coat
You slip the flask into the pocket of your trenchcoat.

>s
The rain is still coming down, so you open your umbrella.

Narrow Street
As the lane winds along from east to west, it narrows until the steep, jagged
rooftops on either side of the street practically touch each other. To the
south, a side street leads across Whateley Bridge toward the center of town, and
a twisting lane leads up a hill to the northwest. A short flight of steps to the
north leads down to the local watering hole.

A sudden gust of rain puts the lantern out.

>w

Junction
To the north, a gap in the crowded press of gloomy buildings opens onto a
country lane, heading out over a grassy heath. The main street continues to the
east, while to the northwest, over the top of a steep rise, you can just make
out the vaulted rooftops of the university.

>nw

University Court
Isolated and serene within its high, ivy-covered walls, Miskaton University
represents this benighted town's single, if somewhat dubious, claim to cultural
achievement. Founded some time in the early 1800s, the school's reputation and
enrollment have diminished somewhat as Anchorhead drifts further and further
into the abyss of provincial backwaterism. Still, it is generally recognized for
its collection of folklore and esoteric mythology (one of the oldest and most
extensive on the east coast). The Board of Deans was also kind enough to offer
Michael a full professorship upon hearing of his recently discovered heritage
and his plans to move into the estate. Ivory tower, perhaps, but at least they
take care of their own.

There are numerous buildings surrounding this cobbled court, but the only one
you are interested in is the library to the west, where Michael told you he'd be
until he came back to the real estate agent's office to pick you up. Which,
incidentally, he has not yet done.

>w
You close your umbrella, as is your habit after coming indoors.

Library
Shadows roost thickly in the vaulted ceiling, and small, green-shaded desk lamps
cast pools of warm radiance here and there around the library's dim interior.
You pause a moment to let the hushed peacefulness of this place soak in -- a
welcome relief from the unsettling events of the day. An exit lies east, and a
small alcove to the north houses the circulation counter.

Peering through the shadows, you spot your husband sitting at one of the reading
desks, absorbed in some sort of weighty tome and clearly oblivious to the time.

>x lamps
The lamps have curved, brass stands and frosted green shades; the kind of thing
you'd expect to see on an accountant's desk in the 1930s.

The reading lamp is currently switched on.

>x husband
Tall and a bit on the skinny side, in an endearingly awkward sort of way; a
serious, thoughtful face topped with an unruly tangle of brown hair; deep brown
eyes framed by wire-rimmed glasses -- yep, that's the man you married, all
right.

At the moment, Michael is largely absorbed in his reading, and is paying little
attention to you.

>x michael
Tall and a bit on the skinny side, in an endearingly awkward sort of way; a
serious, thoughtful face topped with an unruly tangle of brown hair; deep brown
eyes framed by wire-rimmed glasses -- yep, that's the man you married, all
right.

At the moment, Michael is largely absorbed in his reading, and is paying little
attention to you.

>x book
Michael looks up, startled, then realizes it's you and smiles. "Hi, hon," he
says, closing the book and stretching. Then he glances at his watch. "Good
grief, what happened to the time? I'm so sorry -- I just lost track." He smiles
sheepishly.

"Well?" he asks. "Did you get the keys?"

>ask michael about keys
"The real estate agent is supposed to be holding them at her office," he says.

>ask michael about agent
He frowns as you tell him about the real estate agent's disappearance. "That is
rather odd," he says. "I wonder where she could be?"

>save
Ok.

>ask michael about help
You can't think of anything to say about that for the moment.

>examine book
Michael jerks the book away from you. "Excuse me," he says, a bit more sharply
than you had expected, "I'll be done with it in a minute."

>examine book
It's obvious Michael is trying to hide something from you, and while you very
much want to know what in the world it is, it would be best not to make a scene
about it here.

>ask michael about keys
"The real estate agent is supposed to be holding them at her office," he says.

>n

Circulation Desk
A high counter divides the public portion of the library from the reserved
stacks -- all the more esoteric and mysterious volumes from the university's
collection. If anything, the area behind the counter is even more shadowy than
the side you're on. The main reading area lies south.

Hanging on the wall next to the counter is a small, printed sign. Beneath the
sign sits a heavy, dog-eared register, and sitting next to the register is a
bell.

>read sign
"All restricted books must be signed for on the register, and may not be removed
from this building. Please have your faculty ID ready when you make your
request."

>read register
It's basically a log, recording what book was checked out, who checked it out,
and when. There must be hundreds of names here.

>ring bell

Ding.

A moment later, the gaunt and fishy-eyed librarian emerges silently from the
shadows behind the counter.

>x librarian
Her slack, pallid skin looks as if it has seen little more than the inside of a
cave for most of her life. She stares at you silently with disturbingly large
and watery eyes.

>ask librarian for help
The librarian purses her thin, fishy lips at you. Apparently, she only lends out
library books.

>s
Without a word, the librarian fades back into the shadows.

